Office Outlook Add-in built on Blazor WASM Web Technologies (#373)
OfficeDev/Office-Add-in-samples: Samples/blazor-add-in/outlook-blazor-add-in/README.md

---
page_type: sample
urlFragment: outlook-blazor-add-in
products:
  - office-add-ins

>   - office

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - office
  - office-outlook
```

languages:
  - javascript
  - C#
extensions:
  contentType: samples
  technologies: Add-ins
  createdDate: '08/25/2022 11:13:00 PM'
description: 'Create a Blazor Webassembly Outlook add-in showcasing some samples.'
---

# Create a Blazor Webassembly Outlook add-in

This sample shows how to build an Outlook add-in using .NET Blazor technologies. Blazor Webassembly allows you to build Office Add-ins using .NET, C#, and JavaScript to interact with the Office JavaScript API. The add-in uses JavaScript to work with the document and Office JS APIs, but you build the user interface and all other non-Office interactions in C# and .NET Core Blazor technologies.

Working with Blazor Webassembly in the framework of Office, you can:
- Build cross-platform Office Add-ins using Blazor, C#, and JavaScript Interop
- Initialize the Office JavaScript API library in Blazor context

> - Interact with Outlook to manipulate paragraphs and content controls

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Interact with Outlook to work with email and calendar items
```

> - Interact with document content through Office JavaScript APIs

Reviewer: Probably remove this line since it is focused on Word or Excel.

Author: Done

## Applies to

- Outlook on the web, Windows, and Mac.

## Prerequisites

- Microsoft 365 - Get a [free developer sandbox](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/dev-program#Subscription) that provides a renewable 90-day Microsoft 365 E5 developer subscription.

## Run the sample

1. Download or clone the [Office Add-ins samples repository](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Add-in-samples).
1. Open Visual Studio 2022 and open the **Office-Add-in-samples\Samples\blazor-add-in\outlook-blazor-add-in\outlook-blazor-add-in.sln** solution.

> 1. To run the demo, select Project **outlook-blazor-sideloader** and select **Office Desktop Client**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In **Solution Explorer** select the **outlook-blazor-sideloader** project. Then display the project properties (F4).
1. In the **Properties** window, set the **Start Action** to **Office Desktop Client**.
```
Good place to include the image I sent over email.

> 1. The first time you run the demo, enter the email address of the account you want to access in the **Email Address** property of the **outlook-blazor-sideloader** project. This sets the **Use multi-factor auth** to **true**.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the **Properties** window, set the **Email Address** to the email address of the account you want to use with this sample.
```
Is the multi-auth important? It stayed at false for me, and seemed to run fine.

1. To start the solution, choose **Debug** > **Start Debugging** or press **F5**.
1. When Outlook opens, choose **Home** > **Show Taskpane**.

> Next, try out the controls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, try out the controls. The task pane will display information about the currently selected email item.
```

## Understand an Office Add-in in Blazor Context

> An Office Add-in is a web application that extends Office with additional functionality for the user. For example, an add-in can add ribbon buttons, a task pane, or a content pane with the functionality you want. Because an Office Add-in is a web application, you must provide a web server to host the files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Office Add-in is a web application that extends Office with additional functionality for the user. For example, Outlook add-ins can add ribbon buttons, and provide a task pane during compose or read modes. Because an Office Add-in is a web application, you must provide a web server to host the files.
```

The purpose of this sample is to show you how to build and interact with the Blazor, C# and JavaScript Interop options. If you're looking for more examples of interacting with Outlook and Office JS APIs, see [Script Lab](https://aka.ms/getscriptlab).

### Blazor pages

The **Pages** folder contains the Blazor pages, such as **Index.razor**. Each **.razor** page also contain two code-behind pages, for example, named **Index.razor.cs** and **Index.razor.js**. The C# file first establishes an interop connection with the JavaScript file.

```csharp
protected override async Task OnAfterRenderAsync(bool firstRender)
{
  if (firstRender)
  {
    JSModule = await JSRuntime.InvokeAsync<IJSObjectReference>("import", "./Pages/Index.razor.js");
  }
}
```

For any events that need to interact with the Outlook mail item, the C# file calls through interop to the JavaScript file.

```csharp
private async Task<MailRead?> GetEmailData()
{
    MailRead? mailreaditem = await JSModule.InvokeAsync<MailRead>("getEmailData");

    Console.WriteLine("Subject C#: ");
    Console.WriteLine(mailreaditem?.Subject);

    return mailreaditem;
}
```

> The JavaScript runs the code to interact with the document and returns (see full code in the sample).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JavaScript runs the code to interact with the item and returns (see full code in the sample).
```

---
page_type: sample
urlFragment: outlook-blazor-add-in
products:
  - office-add-ins
  - office
languages:
  - javascript
  - C#
extensions:
  contentType: samples
  technologies: Add-ins
  createdDate: '08/25/2022 11:13:00 PM'
description: 'Create a Blazor Webassembly Outlook add-in showcasing some samples.'
---

# Create a Blazor Webassembly Outlook add-in

> This sample shows how to build a Outlook add-in using .NET Blazor technologies. Blazor Webassembly allows you to build Office Add-ins using .NET, C#, and JavaScript to interact with the Office JS API. The add-in uses JavaScript to work with the document and Office JS APIs, but you build the user interface and all other non-Office interactions in C# and .NET Core Blazor technologies.

Author: I found that document was still mentioned here:
> JavaScript to work with the **document**
This is now the context of Outlook but not sure how to reference an Outlook item vs document.
